# Assignment 2: Pilot Usability Test
## by Julia Wood for DH150: User Experience and Design

### My Project Focus: Women's Retail Sites 

## Introduction

In this assignment I will be conducting a pilot usability test on the website Hautelook. This is because at the end of this course I hope to design an online shopping experience targetted at middle aged women, and Hautelook is an online retail site used mainly by middle aged women. In Assignment 01, I completed a heuristic evaluation of the website, and I found that the website is difficult to navigate because it is over crowded with the multiude of daily deals. The three main heuristics I will be focusing on in this assignment are:
1. Aesthetic and minimalistic design  
    - I will test this by having the user trying to find a specific deal amongst the 60+ deals that are shown on the site. 
2. Help and documentation  
    - I will test this by having the user find information related to gift returns.  
3. Visibility of system status 
    - I will test this by having the user navigate around the site performing standard online shopping tasks like adding an item to a wishlist, searching an event, adding an item to cart, and going to checkout. 

While there were more clear usability issues, like Hautelook removing items from your cart that are no longer in stock with no  messaging or finding an item you viewed previously but didn't save, to test these I would want the user to leave the site and return several hours later which I do not have the luxury to do in this recorded pilot UT.   
The purpose of this Usability Test is to find and correct errors in Hautelook's user experience by having a user attempt to complete tasks on the website. This assignment will help me to analyze the issues with Hautelook's UX, so I do not make similar mistakes in my final project of creating a shopping website. Conducting  this usability test is also for my own benefit so I can see how I can improve my usability tests and moderator skills in the future. The user participating in this usability test is my roommate, Katie, a 20 year old woman very comfortable with online shopping. Katie was chosen as the participant because there were no middle aged women I could get to participate in this usability test free of cost. 

## Survey 
Here is a link to my Hautelook Usability Test made with Google Forms and shared with my instructor, Dr. Sookie Cho. 

[Survey Link](https://forms.gle/iNT8DqtcsufDY3p17)

## Pilot UT Video
Here is the link to my pilot UT video on youtube. It is a screen recording of me, Julia Wood, modereating the Hautelook Usability test (linked above) on my participant, Katie Heckart.  
The video is accessible to anyone with the link. 

[Hautelook Usability Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=11KFFk0Fj5k&feature=youtu.be)

## Reflection

I am going to reflect on Katie's experience with Hautelook and the usability test I made. Seeing that Katie is my best friend, I had to pause the recording in the beginning of the video had so I could collect myself because I began to laugh. In the future, with non-friend participants, laughing will not be an issue, however, this made me realize the importance of professionalism in usability tests. Now in regards to the test, the first error arose in my questioning of how often she uses the webite. The google form asked the participant, "If yes, how often do you use Hautelook's website?", and Katie had trouble answering this question because she used to use the site frequently, but she has not used it in several years. This made me realize that I need to improve the clarity of my questioning to maybe include how long ago the user last used this website and how often they used the website during the time period when the user frequented the website. The next question from the pre-test questions that I want to highlight is, "What do you think will happen and appear on the website if you select the tab 'MEN'?" This is because I suspected the user would have certain thoughts about it that  differ from how the actual site operates, which is confusing. When one clicks on the 'MEN' tab they do not arrive at 'All men's clothing' like Katie had suspected, but rather they arrive to a lengthy site filled with images for all the events (sales/deals) related to men, not actual Men's clothing.

Now moving onto analyzing how Katie performed the tasks, and what that means in regards to Hautelook's usability based on Nielson'd 10 heuristics. Katie's first task was to find gift return information on the site, and she scrolled to the bottom of the home page to find this information. While she correctly found a 'Returns' page, in order to access it she had to logon to Hautelook. She could not do this because she was performing the task from the perspective of a guest. This brings up an issue of User Control and Freedom because Katie can not easily find relevant information without being prompted to make an account. This task was initally designed to analyze the site's Help and Documentation resources, and based on my research I found that while the information does exist on the site for anyone to access it, it is very hard to find and the search bar is not helpful in searching for 'return' information. Overall, they could put all the relevant return information on one page instead of having 4 different pages dedicated to the same information and make it easier to search  for this information on their site.  

During this first task, I had to remember to be supportive without giving the user hints on how to complete the tasks. For future usability tests, I will better prepare how to answer questions as to not persuade the participant in any way. As for the second task, I encouraged Katie by saying "Good talking to your thought process" which I feeel like was helpful to her without influencing the results of my usability test. When she was searching for an upcoming event she thought by clicking on 'Women' it would filter down what she was looking for, but actually little changed from the 'All Events' page which was confusing to her. This is an issue regarding Visibility of System Status because the user found it hard to distinguish the  difference between the two pages, and therefore the user was unsure the website had changed at all. At some point throughout the second task, Katie said, "That was a stupid idea" referring to how she naviagted the site. While I said, "No that wasn't", I should have reempahsized the fact that I am analyzing the website and not her, to make her feel more comfortable. By the third task, I realized that the participant does not always navigate the site like I might have predicted. This was eye-opening to get another perspective of the site. When I would've gone straight to the search bar, Katie instead began scrolling first. One point throughout there was also a minor typo in my usability test, thankfully my participant could infer that 'Option 1' was supposed to be 'Yes', but in the future I should triple-check my quiz to make sure there are no errors that could cause confusion. 

Usability tests are necessary because you need additional perspectives besides your own to truly test the website. This usability test helped me hone my skils as a moderator, but made me realize that more often then not you have to come up with additional questions and answers on the fly. So next time, I will have a set process on how to answer the users questions. Also it helped me realize the importance of the post-test questionnaire because the participants sometimes answer differently based on what the moderator might think  by  watching them go through the tasks, on subjects like ease and efficiency. 
